all right so you've signed up for the
toastmasters speech
evaluator role and maybe you've never
done this before and you're not really
sure
what's to be expected so now you're
doing your youtube research
or maybe you have done speech
evaluations
but you're not sure if you're doing them
correctly and you want to find out
or maybe you feel like you crush speech
evaluations and you're great at this
already but you're
you're a lifelong learner and you always
want to see if you can raise the bar
whichever of those buckets you fit into
i think this video
is going to be very helpful because i'm
going to talk about what a toastmaster
speech evaluation
is and how you can make sure you're
doing it not only correctly
but at an elite level first off if this
is the first time that you've landed on
my channel
welcome i am stoked you're here make
sure you subscribe because i do many
other videos about all sorts of
toastmasters
subjects you can find those in my
previous videos and i will continue
to do most more toastmasters content and
also
i have a lot of content on this channel
about how to be a more impactful
communicator this is something i'm
passionate about and i am stoked to help
you
along with me on this journey i actually
have another video on my channel that is
about a speech evaluation
contest and this video is necessary
because it
is a little bit different and here's the
key difference
a speech evaluation contest which is
part of the toastmasters
contest most clubs participate at the
club level and then at the area level
and the division level and on and on and
on
the key there is that that is about you
it is about you the evaluator you are
the one being judged
and therefore you do a couple of things
through that process that are
a little bit different than what you
want to do at the club level during a
normal meeting
because at the club level as an
evaluator it's not about you
it's actually about the speaker and you
want to give
that individual great feedback on what
they did very well but also things that
they can improve upon
because that is one of the biggest
benefits of toastmasters
is that we have a chance to speak but
then be evaluated
and learn where we can improve in our
speaking skills
to continue growing and bringing
ourselves to the next level
first thing to know about a speech
evaluation is that it's two to three
minutes which isn't a ton of time
but it's enough time if you utilize it
correctly
one thing i like to do is break down my
speech evaluations into
four sections the first section is
an introduction or a quick sentence or
something from
the speech that caught your attention or
that nicely summarizes
what the speech was all about the second
section
is the strengths the things that the
speaker did very well
i usually aim to give minimum two but
often
three strengths sometimes four that the
speaker did
very well and these can be things like
eye contact
body language vocal variety strong
speech structure
all of these sorts of things can be
incorporated as strengths it's it's all
about what you're
observing the third section is gifts or
areas that the speaker could improve
upon
we call them gifts because it really is
that even though it sounds like a
negative somebody's saying oh
wait you really should have done this
better that is a gift because that is an
area i didn't realize perhaps that i was
a little bit weak and now if i can
improve that and add that to all my
existing skills
all right i'm becoming a better speaker
and that's why we call them gifts
usually i aim to give one or two gifts
depending
on the speech and the speaker's ability
and finally
and this is something that's important
in the contest especially that's often
looked over
but i think it's important for any club
evaluation
is a conclusion it's wrapping that up
it's summarizing
what all of the strengths were and
if that speaker incorporates the couple
gifts along with those strengths
some encouraging words to wrap it up of
they're going to do
phenomenal and can't wait to hear more
speeches by this individual
so while that is the structure of an
evaluation
your work as an evaluator actually
begins
prior to that because of course you have
to be listening
to the speaker and paying attention and
probably taking notes
so that you know what you're going to
talk about during that evaluation
as i mentioned earlier some of the
things you're going to look out for and
sometimes you can write this
on your evaluation sheet even before is
some key categories that we know
are essential for public speaking things
like
did the speaker maintain eye contact how
was their body language
what specifically was good were they
fidgeting with anything
did they have opportunities to
use more vocal variety than they did did
it transition smoothly or was it a
little bit disjointed
these are all questions you're going to
be asking yourself in your head
as the speaker is speaking and making
notes on
so that when you give your evaluation
you're able to point out those things to
the speaker
now one of the top mistakes i see in
speech evaluations
is the transition from second to third
person
so second person is saying you because
you're going to be giving this
evaluation in front of the speaker so if
the speaker's name
is sarah and sarah's in the room it is
very tempting
to say sarah you did this very well
but your eye contact could have been a
little bit stronger but the thing we
have to remember is that a speech
evaluation
isn't just for sarah it's actually for
the entire club
so you want to use third person which
means sarah's name
so instead you would word it when sarah
used body language she was very
effective however
one thing that could make sarah's next
speech stronger
is more effective eye contact not
looking at the floor when she's speaking
rather maintaining eye contact with the
rest of the group
a lot of people will bounce back and
forth they will talk to the audience and
then they will talk directly to sarah
and then back to the audience
and again going back to the contest
especially in the contest you want to
make sure
that you're speaking in third person
throughout but even at the club level
that is
something that very much helps the
audience because it's a constant
reminder that
everyone can learn from this evaluation
not just sarah
the final thing to remember in a speech
evaluation is not to get
too hung up on the technicalities at the
end of the day
remember your purpose your purpose is
to help the rest of your club
specifically sarah or whoever the
speaker
was to improve in future speeches or
learn from things that that individual
could have
done better therefore that is why i made
this separate video for a club
evaluation because i do believe it is
different than a contest a contest
it's sort of a selfish intent you're
putting on a little bit of a show
with your evaluation but at the club
level you still want to keep those
fundamental skills
but at the end of the day all that
really matters
is that that individual has some great
feedback and can grow
as a toastmaster and it's your job to
help them
achieve that a final point i'll bring up
before i wrap up this video is the idea
of using notes because in an evaluation
it's almost impossible not to to some
degree you need to write down
your thoughts that you don't forget and
again are able to give great feedback to
that speaker
but there's a couple strategies to limit
your
note so that you're not standing in
front of the crowd reading
a single page and not making eye contact
yourself because
you still want to use that evaluation
opportunity to improve your own public
speaking skills as well
one thing i love to do is often there's
a podium
at the front of the room of the
toastmasters room
and i will move it sideways which seems
a little bit funny perhaps but i move it
to the side
and i still have my notes there but that
way
it's not blocking my body language so
i'm just out in front of the crowd
people can see our
room is kind of set up in a u-shape in
terms of the tables
and so i can still see there's nothing
obstructing
but it also forces me to practice all of
those things to look
at the group to make eye contact and
then when i need to go back and check my
notes it's a slight look to the side
i take a look make sure it's clear not
word for word writing but just things
like
eye contact good or vocal variety
needs improvement something that jogs my
memory of
ah i remember as i was re writing this
what i was thinking and the feedback i
have for sarah
so i quickly reference it and then i
turn back to the audience
and i can continue with my evaluation
minimal use of notes
it's very very tough to do in an
evaluation
but it is incredibly effective and it
will be that much stronger especially
if you're speaking from the heart and
not
bogged down on not able to read your
writing word for word
that's not an effective evaluation you
want to reference those notes
as minimal as possible i hope this video
was
beneficial to you i hope that you are
encouraged to go sign up for more speech
evaluations and practice your skills
because you by signing up for this role
you are helping others in your club
become better speakers
and at the end of the day that's what
toastmasters is all about i really hope
this video gave you a little bit of
value if you
did enjoy the content subscribe
subscribe to my channel there's going to
be a lot more videos like this talking
about various
aspects of the toastmasters program also
other videos about impactful
communication i even have a series on
how you launch a
podcast for those people who really want
to take their skills to the next level
so make sure you subscribe go check out
the videos already on my channel
and i'll catch you on the next one